Hey guys.
Welcome to Lecture 22.
This lecture we're going to be
going over some summary statistics.
[LAUGH]
Sorry.
So Pandas comes with some really
good methods you can call on.
Data frames, they're all built in, and you
can summarize data in these method frames.
So let's go ahead and
start off with importing NumPy as np.
Basically our usual stuff,
importing from Pandas import series.
And data frame and
then import pandas as pd.
Awesome.
First off what we're going to want to
do is create a dataframe to work with.
And I'm going to construct this dataframe
from a matrix that I built using np.array.
Like we've done in the past before.
Let's go ahead and
make this a 2 by 3 matrix.
So the first row I'm going to give it 1 2.
And then I'm going to do something
a little different that we haven't seen in
the past before.
I'm gonna make the third value np.nan.
So I'm gonna make it a null value,
and you'll see what I do that later.
And then same thing for
the first value in the second row.
It's also gonna be nan, and
then I'll give it some numbers there.
So let's go ahead and make that matrix.
And now, to build my data
frame we'll call it dframe1.
I'll pass the matrix I just made.
We'll give it an index.
Index will be A, B.
And the columns,
we'll call them One, Two, and three.
All right.
Let's see what that looks like.
So, from my matrix it was one to null,
null three four.
Now we have it in a data frame with A, B
index and the columns are called 1, 2, and
3.
Cool.
So let's see the sum method in
action here, just take a look at
what happens, so what is this gonna do?
So sum on a data frame, it's gonna sum
up all the values for each column.
So, for instance, the two column,
two plus three is five.
And you notice something that's really
nice about PEMDAS when you're calling sum.
It's gonna ignore null values.
So it's not gonna crash on you just
because you have null values there.
It's gonna be able to just ignore them and
treat them as zeroes.
So it's just going to skip them over.
Okay.
What if we wanted to add up the rows?
Well, you can do it the exact same way.
You just gotta indicate that your axis=1.
And now you've summed up the rows instead.
So row A, one plus two is three.
And then row B you have three
plus four equals seven.
Cool.
What other methods can
you call on a data frame?
Well you can call the min
method on a data frame.
And what is that gonna do?
Let's take a look at our data frame again,
just to get a picture.
The min method is gonna find
the minimum value in each column.
So, the one column, two column,
three column the minimum value if
we take a look at the two column.
It was two since it's comparing two and
three.
Two's the smaller number there,
so two is the minimum value.
So it returns the one, two, and
four values there,
the minimum values for each column.
What if you wanted to find the index
of the minimum value of each column?
There's a method we can pass there as well
In that case, it's just gonna be idxmin.
And that's gonna give you the index
of each of those minimum values.
So if we take a look back at the minimum
values that were 1, 2, and 4,
which index were they in?
So the one column.
It's an in values one.
And if we look back on our data frame,
the index for that value is A.
So A is the index of the minimum column or
the minimum value for column 1.
Let's go ahead and look at column two,
what was it's minimum value?
It's minimum value was two and
the index for that minimum value was A.
And then finally column three,
it's minimum value was four and
the index for that one was B.
And so IDX will return idxmin will return
the index of the minimum
values in each column.
All right, you can do the same thing
with finding the maximum values.
They're the exact same methods, but
instead of writing them
in you just write max.
So let's go ahead and
see our data frame one more time.
One two null, null three four.
We can also do an accumulation sum,
if you wanted to.
The way to do that is really easy,
just Cumsum, call it on.
Remember, we called a dframe1,
go ahead and pass that.
And now you have the accumulation
sum along the columns.
So the only place you're gonna see
the difference there is in column two,
where in column two index B,
its value is now five.
Since the accumulation sum was two plus
three, it changes that value to five.
Cool, so now that we've gone
over some basic methods,
let's get into the real
useful features of Pandas.
So one of the most useful features
A method called describe.
Let's go ahead and
just see what that looks like.
So if we call the describe method,
I'm sorry, there we go, dframe1.
So what does describe do?
So describe is going to provide summary
statistics for your data frame.
So it's going to give you a bunch
of statistics on your data frame.
It's going to count how
many objects you have.
It gonna give you this mean,
the standard deviation,
other statistics to find values
of uncertain distributions.
For probabilities beyond the mean.
[SOUND] And you can get that
all just by passing describe.
Cool.
So, speaking of statistics,
what else can we get?
We can also get information, we can
get information on the correlation and
covariance of your data
in your data frames.
So what I'm gonna do now is
from IPython.display.
I'm gonna import YouTubeVideo.
And this is gonna allow me to actually
show you some YouTube videos.
So in case you're feeling, if you feel
like you need a refresher on covariance
and correlation or you just wanna just
learn a little more statistics since
you're gonna need to understand
covariance, correlation.
For the rest of this lecture.
There's some really,
really great videos on YouTube.
The best sources on the internet that
I've found for learning basic statistics.
And I'm going to go ahead and
put the links here so you can see it.
And again, you can just grab these from
the IPython viewer notebooks on GitHub.
So this first video, this is for
understanding covariance.
The videos are made by
a man named Brandon Foltz,
they're really, really great videos.
And the second video is
On Understanding Correlation.
So go ahead and check out these
videos if you're feeling not so
fresh on covariance and correlation.
So once you've gone over these two videos
you can come back to this lecture and
learn how you can find the correlation and
covariance values in your
panda state of frame.
Okay.
So now that you understand covariance and
correlation, let's go ahead and make
a data frame and get some information.
So, what kinda information do we want?
It might be interesting to see correlation
and covariance on some stock prices.
So in order to do that we can actually use
Pandas to actually get
information off the web.
We're going to learn how to do this in
much more detail later so you can think of
this kinda as a sneak peek of what
you're going to learn in the future.
So what I'm gonna do first is
import pandas.io.data as pdweb.
It's gonna allow us to get
some information off the web.
Then I'm also gonna import datetime,
just a Pandas library for date input.
And then I'm gonna create
a dataframe called prices.
Well, let me import these first.
Make sure you don't make a mistake.
Perfect.
So what can we do to get some prices?
Well, we'll call PDweb and
then we're going to call
get_data_yahoo.
So there's a lot of built in methods
to get stock prices automatically from
the web.
And all you have to do is input symbols,
the dates you want them for.
And then what kinda values
you want off the stock.
You can also get it off Google stocks,
and various other sources.
We'll be learning about this
much more in detail later on, so
this is kinda just a preview.
So for correlation and
covariance, let's go ahead and
check out maybe some oil companies.
So I'm gonna put some stocks symbols for
oil companies such as Exxon Mobil or
British Petroleum.
These are some of the largest
corporations in the world so
it should be interesting to
see their stock price data.
And we'll say the start,
this is where we're gonna use datetime.
So I'm gonna start it from 2010,
January 1st,
and I'm going to end datetime.datetime,
and we'll tend it just three years later,
so
2013, January 1st.
And then the value I want off
of this is the closing price,
which in this case is going to have
to be past the string adj Close.
And again, don't worry,
we'll be going over this in
much more detail in the future,
this is kinda just a sneak peak on how to
get financial information off the web.
Let's see if this worked.
All right, took a little bit but
it got it.
Prices.head, so
.head just allows you to see almost
like a preview of your data frame.
So it's just gonna show you
the first couple of values.
So we have our three stock ticker symbols,
as the columns, and
then the date as the index,
and the actual stock price.
So now we have a data frame full of
stock prices, so that's pretty awesome.
Let's go ahead and
get the volume of the trades.
So, in order to do that,
I'll do something really similar.
I'm gonna say pdweb.get_data_yahoo
We'll pass the same ticker marks,
the symbols.
Whoops.
And let's capitalize that X.
And we'll do it for the same time frame.
So, the start time frame will be
datetime.datetime, 2010 1, 1.
And we'll have.
Whoops, forgot to put the day.
We'll have the end be datetime.datetime,
2013,1,1.
And in this case,
what I'm gonna call for is the volume.
Last time we called the closing price,
this time we're gonna ask for the volume.
And that looks like I
messed up some syntax, and
what I forgot was a comma to
separate the start and the end.
Let's try that again.
Okay, and let's go ahead and
just get use dot the method head.
So, see the head of that data frame.
Just go to preview.
Cool.
So this
is the amount of stocks that were
traded on each of those days.
So the total volume of stocks.
So what would your return be?
So the return would be the percentage
change in prices in your stocks.
So let's go ahead and
call an object rets for returns.
And then from your prices data frame,
the method you can call is pct_change().
So now you have the returns on your stock,
and
let's say you wanted to get
the correlation of the stocks.
How would you do that?
Well, we can set another object,
and we'll say,
we can pass the correlation
argument which is
.corr on that new returns
object that we made by
getting the percent change
on the prices data frame.
Let's run that and see if that works.
Awesome, it did.
So let's just get a rough idea
of what these prices look like.
So in order to do that,
I'm just gonna call plot method,
on this data frame, prices.
And again, in the future,
we'll learn a lot more about this.
This is just to get you a little taste
of the correlation of covariance.
So it's gonna plot that from prices.
Okay, so notice that I didn't
actually see the plot.
If I want to see the plot,
I have to call a special command.
We've seen this in the past,
we got to call matplotlibinline.
So let's try it again, all right awesome.
So now I'm actually seeing
the price of each stock.
And you can kind of see how
they relate to one another,
especially the tickers CVX and XOM.
You can see that they're really, really,
really correlated to each other.
Especially around maybe September 2011,
there's a dip and
then the rises seem to really similar.
The Burst Petroleum stock, it doesn't seem
to be as quite high of a correlation, but
there's still definitely some correlation
there, just not as close as the CVX XOM.
So what if you wanted to
plot out this correlation?
Well.
Again, here's another sneak peek at what
we're going to be learning in the future.
We're going to import seaborn as sns.
And I'll go over this in
much more detail later, but
seaborn is going to be a plotting
library to help us visualize some data.
And then I'm going to import
Matplotlib.pyplot as plt and
let's go ahead and import those two.
Let's see how they work.
And now we can use seaborn sns
to make a correlation plot.
And seaborn can do that.
Just by passing corrplot,
what we're going to want
to do is get the data.
So if you remember before, we have
a returns data set as the object RETS,
that was just the percentage
change in prices.
I'm going to set imitation as false so
we get a clear picture,
and I'm also gonna set
diag_names that's false.
And this is just to make a clear picture,
but
we'll have a whole section on
learning seaborn in the future.
We're gonna learn a lot about,
it's gonna make some really great plots.
This is just to give you
a preview of what that looks like.
And here you have a really nice plot here,
and it's actually showing you
the correlations between them.
So it looks like XOM and
CVX have a really high correlation of 0.8,
that's pretty high.
And if we look up here to the actual
prices, that really makes sense if you see
they're really, really,
really correlate with each other.
When one goes up, one goes down,
I mean these curves look very similar.
And that shows in
the correlation data as well.
So awesome, so
now you've seen visualized one,
kind of in the back of your mind you can
see how this would be highly correlated.
And then, mathematically,
you've actually done the correlation,
seeing that it has numerical values to it.
And then last thing we can
do after that preview,
let's get back a little more on track
to stuff we wanna learn right now.
We an check for
unique values in the accounts.
So, in order to do that,
I'm just gonna make a quick series.
Now let's just make this,
just have it be a bunch of letters.
So I'll say w, w, throw in an x,
throw in a y,
throw in a z throw in another w,
a couple more letters just so
we get a good feel for this.
Finally I'll put an a at the end,
something unique.
I'll show the series.
And, whoops, sorry.
I should be passing a list into the
series, so we need those brackets there.
Let's go ahead and see what it looks like.
All right.
So, you got your series, bunch of letters.
If we wanted to grab the unique values, I
can do that by pressing the unique method.
And now I get an array return
with each of the unique values.
So, w, x, y, z,
a were all the unique values.
What if I wanted to know how many of
each of the unique values there were?
I can say, value counts.
And now I know how many W's, X's,
Y's, A's, and Z's there were.
Okay.
That it's for summary statistics.
Next we're going to
learn with missing data.
Let's just quickly scroll up and
see what we learned.
So the important takeaways
here are learning how to
call different summary methods onto
a dataframe, such as stop sum, dot min.
Or dot idx min or
dot idx max or calling min.
Really useful feature.
Main thing to get out of this, describe.
Describe is super powerful and we'll be
using quite a bit throughout this course.
To give you a little taste of the future,
we went over covariance and
correlation and how we can grab
information off the web using pandas.
Just to give you a little
taste of what you can really,
really do some amazing stuff with pandas.
And then how we can plot and
how we can make really good looking at
data visualization plots using seaborn,
which we'll learn about seaborn and
plotting in a whole other
section on data visualization.
All right, awesome.
And then we can check for unique
values in a series or dataframe, and
we cal also get their value counts.
Cool, so that was summary statistics.
I'll see you on lecture 23.
Thanks.